---
title: "Fish on macOS - A week long experiment"
date: 2024-12-16 17:00
excerpt: Shell-shocking my workflow
tags:
  - Programming
  - Short
---

For the next week, I intend to experiment with utilizing Fish as my primary
shell on macOS. This challenge was initiated this morning by
[Francesco](http://nomnp.com), who encouraged me to explore Fish as an
alternative shell.

<div class="rounded-full bg-gray-200 dark:bg-blue-100 px-4">
  Switching to Fish for a week?
</div>

## Installation

I followed these steps to install Fish: 

1. I used Homebrew to install fish.
```bash
$ brew install fish
```
 
2. I then added fish to the list of available shells.
```bash
$ which fish | sudo tee -a /etc/shells > /dev/null
```

3. Then I switched my default shell.
```bash
chsh -s $(which fish)
```

## Something cool

A positive aspect of Fish is the use of the conf.d directory, which helps
organize configuration files into individual scripts, making it easier to
manage and update customizations without cluttering a single configuration
file.

One thing I’ve noticed is that Fish feels noticeably faster than my previous
setup with Zsh + Oh My Zsh. It seems more responsive, and the startup time
feels snappier.

## A first challenge
The default keybinding to edit a command using $EDITOR is Meta+E (contrary to
other shells ⌃+X ⌃+E). Since I use the ⌥ (Option) key as a **compose key** for
typing special characters, I cannot remap it to the Meta key.  I had to
configure a custom bind to bring back ⌃+X ⌃+E functionality.

```fish title="~/.config/fish/conf.d/bindings.fish"
# Edit command
bind \cx\ce edit_command_buffer
```

## Dotfiles
If you want to take a look at my configurations or follow along with the
changes I make throughout this experiment, you can check out my dotfiles
[here](https://github.com/eliseomartelli/dotfiles).

Throughout the week, I will continue experimenting with Fish and refining my
setup. Expect further updates!

---

# Day 2

Fish is not POSIX-compliant, but that’s intentional. It’s designed as a
user-friendly interactive shell, not as a scripting shell.

## Scripts and Compatibility

Many scripts use the following shebangs: 

```bash title="random_script.sh"
#!/bin/bash
```
or
```bash title="random_script.sh"
#!/bin/sh
```
or  (even better)
```bash title="random_script.sh"
#!/usr/bin/env bash
```

Indeed, these scripts presume POSIX compliance, which Fish does not natively
support. However, they also specify the interpreter to be used for executing
those scripts. As noted in the Gentoo Wiki:

> fish should not be set as the system shell by making it the target of the
> /bin/sh symlink; this could result in an inoperable system.

Key Point: Utilize Fish interactively, while maintaining Bash or a
POSIX-compliant shell as the system’s default shell. 

## Counterpoint

```c
#include <stdlib.h>

int main() {
  const char *command = "echo $SHELL";
  exit(system(command));
}
```

The `system()` function executes the provided command (in this instance, `echo
$SHELL`) within a new shell, your default interactive shell (in my case,
`fish`). But you [shouldn’t really
use](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vpGswuYVg8&t=621s) `system()`...
