---
title: "How Last Week Went: Computers Are Your Friends*"
date: "2025-04-18 13:58:00"
excerpt: "Only if they want to be your friends"
tags:
  - Short
  - Misc
---

At the start of the week, I added a new phrase to my vocabulary: "Sgnacca il
butun," a quirky Piemontese expression meaning "push the button."  

I had a meeting Maria from work after four long months. It's fascinating how
time apart makes reunions feel both familiar and fresh. I can't wait to
"chiamare una giornata" (literally, calling it a day) with her.

Later that day, I packed up for a trip back to Abruzzo, to embrace the Easter
festivities. The journey was a blast, literally. My brother and I played music
non-stop for seven hours.

Just after I got home and checked my blog, I began contemplating the need to
implement pagination. With nearly 50 articles under my belt, it felt like the
right time to enhance navigation.

On the tech troubleshooting front, on Monday, a Studio Display at work decided
to throw a tantrum, refusing to show any image. After scouring threads [like
this one](https://x.com/_inside/status/1506048543244627978), I found a simple
solution (I was already excited about having to do a DFU restore of a Studio
Display). An age-old Computer Science 101 trick worked fine: disconnect all the
cables and reboot.

Similarly, my parents' MacMini7,1 gave me a hard time, crashing repeatedly
between boot and login. Despite attempts with recovery mode, [progress was
minimal](/blog/2025-04-17-oclp-failure). Ah, the joys of technology.

My car also got a little care at the body shop after a kid bumped its scooter
on my fender, while I was waiting for my car back, I posted the review of
[Tamara Shopsin's "LaserWriter II"](/blog/2025-04-16-laserwriter-ii).

I took a peaceful stroll in Ortona, heading towards the Castello Aragonese, and
I thoroughly enjoyed capturing the interplay of light and ancient stone.

![Reflections in Castello Aragonese in
Ortona](/posts/2025-04-20-lastweek/aragonese.jpg)

On Holy Thursday, I attended the traditional procession of hooded penitents in
Lanciano to take some photos. The participants, walked solemnly through the
narrow streets of the historic center, accompanied by drums and prayers. 

<HorizontalCarousel>
<CarouselPage>
  <Photo url="/posts/2025-04-18-lastweek/a.jpg" />
</CarouselPage>
<CarouselPage>
  <Photo url="/posts/2025-04-18-lastweek/b.jpg" />
</CarouselPage>
<CarouselPage>
  <Photo url="/posts/2025-04-18-lastweek/c.jpg" />
</CarouselPage>
</HorizontalCarousel>

Oh, I also have some future projects: my mother made some sourdough starter
(that I will gladly take). When I'll be back in Turin, I'll have some new
baking experiments to do!
